README.md, before:

Dockerized Sensu
================

This git repo provides [Sensu](https://sensuapp.org/) in a Docker container.

Project: [https://github.com/sstarcher/docker-sensu]
(https://github.com/sstarcher/docker-sensu)

Docker image: [https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/sstarcher/sensu/]
(https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/sstarcher/sensu/)

[![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/sstarcher/sensu.svg)](http://microbadger.com/images/sstarcher/sensu "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")
[![Docker Registry](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/sstarcher/sensu.svg)](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/sstarcher/sensu)&nbsp;

This is a base container for Sensu Core. It contains `sensu-api`, `sensu-client`, `sensu-server`, but does *not* contain any plugins.

Default configuration is to use `redis` as the transport.  This allows us to not need `rabbitmq`.

This container can be configured to use runtime system information for checks and metrics from it's *host*.


## Note

Installed plugins for now can change without warning. If you need a specific plugin installed either build a container based off of this one our use `RUNTIME_INSTALL` to ensure your plugins are installed.


## Configuration

The client by default only loads files from `/etc/sensu/conf.d`.

The API by default loads files from:

- `/etc/sensu/conf.d`
- `/etc/sensu/check.d`

The server by default loads files from:

- `/etc/sensu/conf.d`
- `/etc/sensu/check.d`
- `/etc/sensu/handlers`

These defaults could be configured via environment variables:

```
ENV CONFIG_DIR /etc/sensu/conf.d
ENV CHECK_DIR /etc/sensu/check.d
ENV HANDLERS_DIR /etc/sensu/handlers
```

If you want `sensu-client` to use runtime system information for checks and metrics from container's *host* system (*not* from `sensu` container itself) you should:

1. Define volumes to access host's filesystem from `sensu` container :

  ```
  /dev:/host_dev/:ro
  /proc:/host_proc/:ro
  /sys:/host_sys/:ro
  ```

2. Redefine environment variables :

  ```
  HOST_DEV_DIR: /host_dev
  HOST_PROC_DIR: /host_proc
  HOST_SYS_DIR: /host_sys
  ```

All Sensu plugins will be automatically configured to use these paths instead of default ones.


Dependencies:
  - Server
    - rabbitmq - If transport is redis this is not used
    - redis
    - api
  - Api
    - rabbitmq - If transport is redis this is not used
    - redis
  - Client
    - transport - rabbitmq or redis


```
RABBITMQ_PORT 5672
RABBITMQ_HOST rabbitmq
RABBITMQ_USER guest
RABBITMQ_PASSWORD guest
RABBITMQ_VHOST /
RABBITMQ_SSL_SUPPORT false
RABBITMQ_SSL_CERT ""
RABBITMQ_SSL_KEY ""

REDIS_HOST redis
REDIS_PORT 6379
REDIS_PASSWORD ""
REDIS_DB 0
REDIS_AUTO_RECONNECT true
REDIS_RECONNECT_ON_ERROR false
```

Client specific settings.

```
CLIENT_NAME *no default*
CLIENT_ADDRESS *no default*
CLIENT_SUBSCRIPTIONS all, default
CLIENT_KEEPALIVE_HANDLER default
```


An example `docker-compose.yml` file of running everything locally:

```
api:
  image: sstarcher/sensu
  command: api
  links:
    - redis
server:
  image: sstarcher/sensu
  command: server
  links:
    - redis
    - api
client:
  image: sstarcher/sensu
  command: client
  environment:
    CLIENT_NAME: bob
    RUNTIME_INSTALL: sstarcher/aws mailer
  links:
    - redis
uchiwa:
  image: sstarcher/uchiwa
  links:
    - api:sensu
  ports:
    - '80:3000'
redis:
  image: redis:3
```

`RUNTIME_INSTALL` will allow you to install additional plugins from github during runtime.  The install format is USERNAME/repo:TAG.  The default USERNAME is sensu-plugins and the default TAG is master.  In place of a TAG a full git sha may be used.

`GEM_SOURCES` can be used to add additional gem sources (such as https://ruby.taobao.org/ for China).

Commit message:

Support more API features (#54)
* api server needs api.json
* use RABBITMQ_PORT from environment
* allow setting credentials for api user

README.md, after:

Dockerized Sensu
================

This git repo provides [Sensu](https://sensuapp.org/) in a Docker container.

Project: [https://github.com/sstarcher/docker-sensu]
(https://github.com/sstarcher/docker-sensu)

Docker image: [https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/sstarcher/sensu/]
(https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/sstarcher/sensu/)

[![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/sstarcher/sensu.svg)](http://microbadger.com/images/sstarcher/sensu "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")
[![Docker Registry](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/sstarcher/sensu.svg)](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/sstarcher/sensu)&nbsp;

This is a base container for Sensu Core. It contains `sensu-api`, `sensu-client`, `sensu-server`, but does *not* contain any plugins.

Default configuration is to use `redis` as the transport.  This allows us to not need `rabbitmq`.

This container can be configured to use runtime system information for checks and metrics from it's *host*.


## Note

Installed plugins for now can change without warning. If you need a specific plugin installed either build a container based off of this one our use `RUNTIME_INSTALL` to ensure your plugins are installed.


## Configuration

The client by default only loads files from `/etc/sensu/conf.d`.

The API by default loads files from:

- `/etc/sensu/conf.d`
- `/etc/sensu/check.d`

The server by default loads files from:

- `/etc/sensu/conf.d`
- `/etc/sensu/check.d`
- `/etc/sensu/handlers`

These defaults could be configured via environment variables:

```
ENV CONFIG_DIR /etc/sensu/conf.d
ENV CHECK_DIR /etc/sensu/check.d
ENV HANDLERS_DIR /etc/sensu/handlers
```

If you want `sensu-client` to use runtime system information for checks and metrics from container's *host* system (*not* from `sensu` container itself) you should:

1. Define volumes to access host's filesystem from `sensu` container :

  ```
  /dev:/host_dev/:ro
  /proc:/host_proc/:ro
  /sys:/host_sys/:ro
  ```

2. Redefine environment variables :

  ```
  HOST_DEV_DIR: /host_dev
  HOST_PROC_DIR: /host_proc
  HOST_SYS_DIR: /host_sys
  ```

All Sensu plugins will be automatically configured to use these paths instead of default ones.


Dependencies:
  - Server
    - rabbitmq - If transport is redis this is not used
    - redis
    - api
  - Api
    - rabbitmq - If transport is redis this is not used
    - redis
  - Client
    - transport - rabbitmq or redis


```
RABBITMQ_PORT 5672
RABBITMQ_HOST rabbitmq
RABBITMQ_USER guest
RABBITMQ_PASSWORD guest
RABBITMQ_VHOST /
RABBITMQ_SSL_SUPPORT false
RABBITMQ_SSL_CERT ""
RABBITMQ_SSL_KEY ""

REDIS_HOST redis
REDIS_PORT 6379
REDIS_PASSWORD ""
REDIS_DB 0
REDIS_AUTO_RECONNECT true
REDIS_RECONNECT_ON_ERROR false
```

Client specific settings.

```
CLIENT_NAME *no default*
CLIENT_ADDRESS *no default*
CLIENT_SUBSCRIPTIONS all, default
CLIENT_KEEPALIVE_HANDLER default
```

Settings required for Server and API.  Defaults to no username or password.
```
API_PORT 4567
API_BIND 0.0.0.0
API_HOST api
API_USER *no default*
API_PASSWORD *no default*
```

An example `docker-compose.yml` file of running everything locally:

```
api:
  image: sstarcher/sensu
  command: api
  links:
    - redis
server:
  image: sstarcher/sensu
  command: server
  links:
    - redis
    - api
client:
  image: sstarcher/sensu
  command: client
  environment:
    CLIENT_NAME: bob
    RUNTIME_INSTALL: sstarcher/aws mailer
  links:
    - redis
uchiwa:
  image: sstarcher/uchiwa
  links:
    - api:sensu
  ports:
    - '80:3000'
redis:
  image: redis:3
```

`RUNTIME_INSTALL` will allow you to install additional plugins from github during runtime.  The install format is USERNAME/repo:TAG.  The default USERNAME is sensu-plugins and the default TAG is master.  In place of a TAG a full git sha may be used.

`GEM_SOURCES` can be used to add additional gem sources (such as https://ruby.taobao.org/ for China).
